Welcome to the complete intro to computer
science data structure and algorithms.
So the first thing you'll see
here on my screen is I had this
nice little course website.
This is all of my notes, so literally, you
can see here I have two computers, one of
them I just have this website off and I'm
just kind of going through point by point.
So this is something that you can keep
after you're done with the course and
refer back to you can share
it with your friends.
One of the really nice things in front of
masters allows me to do is to open source
all the course material.
So if there's spelling mistakes,
please go in and fix them,
these courses get better as people help,
and it's all open source on Git Hub.
Okay, so let's kind of just orient
you a little bit with this site.
Here you can see we have various
different sections here.
Most of these are pretty self-contained so
if you go do trees and
you want to do that, you don't necessarily
have to take binary search first,
which is a nice feature that the only
thing I'll say is that the trees and
applying tree algorithms,
as you might guess,
are kind of based on each other,
everything else is pretty self-contained.
You can see here that these are links so
if I click into one of these
Here in the top right,
you'll see that the name of the section
and the name of the lesson that we're on.
So if I'm in the middle of the lesson,
you can kind of see which part of
the website I'm on, so
you can hop back into wherever I am cool.
Cool, so let's talk a little bit about
why you might wanna take this course.
You might want to take this course because
you're interested in computer science and
you wanna be a better programmer,
that's kind of where I started
learning about these sorts of things.
These things are also very useful for
interviews because big tech
companies love to ask these kind of
questions, for reasons unknown to me,
because most of them don't necessarily
apply on your day to day but
they think it's a measure of
intelligence which I would very
vehement say that it's not
a measure of intelligence.
But in any case, it is the way it is, so
I'm gonna help you cheat at those
interviews by knowing all of the things,
is that cheating by
just knowing the thing?
I guess, no, kind of, anyway, don't care,
I want you to pass all of your interviews
and get paid lots of somebody
that's my goal here.
Okay, here you'll see I have
these like blue boxes on here,
these are just like points of emphasis,
so whenever you see a blue box,
be sure to pay attention
to those on the site.
The first one here is just kind of giving
you permission to feel like this is hard.
[LAUGH] We're about to go
learn a lot of kind of like,
concepts require a lot of brainpower to
just process through, which is exhausting.
So expecting you to do all of these,
right in a row is very, very difficult.
And I'm gonna say for those of you
that are watching this later and
recorded, just give yourself
space to do it, right?
Take this over a couple of days,
walk away from the computer,
think about it Come back, there's a reason
why the colleges spread this out over like
two years, it's because it's kind
of hard to do this all at once.
So just be aware you have this just like
tidal wave of knowledge coming your way,
and if it feels like you're drowning you
might be a little bit and that's okay.
Right, like that's kind of
how this is supposed to work.
But at the same time, it's just really
good to be exposed to these things and
kind of let them sink in overtime.
Like maybe take this class
a couple of times and
you'll get a little bit more each time.
But in any case,
the number one thing here I'm saying
is do not get down on yourself, right?
That's really easy to do when
these things seem really hard and
it feels like everyone else is getting
it and Brian is breezing through this,
why is this so hard for me?
Don't go to that place,
there's nothing useful there for you.
Just be okay, having a hard time,
that's really what I wanna get here is
like it's okay to feel like this is hard.
But by the way, I have to like look these
up every single time that I use them.
I don't just have this like tucked away
in the back of my head, I prepared for
this course and
spent a bunch of time doing this, so
I don't even have this all
in my head all the ones.
All right, that's enough of that.
So who's this course for?
Hopefully, this course is for
you that's who I wrote it for.
[LAUGH] There is a base level
expectation that you know JavaScript.
In that I'm not going to be teaching
your JavaScript today, hopefully,
you are okay with JavaScript.
If you don't know JavaScript,
front of masters has a lot of great and
even free resources.
I link to down here to the boot camp,
which I taught with along with Jen Kramer
and that's totally free for everybody,
definitely share that with your friends
as well, and that'll get you up to speed
where you could probably take this class.
I'm not gonna be doing any sort
of advanced JavaScript stuff,
I even took most of the functional
programming stuff out of this class,
so it's actually fairly straightforward.
Or I hope it's straightforward,
that's what I designed it to be
that you can be the judge of that.
Okay, who's this lovely
bastard on the screen?
That's me.
[LAUGH] My name is Brian,
I work at Microsoft, I live in Seattle at
the moment, I've lived there for,
I don't know, four or five years now.
I did attend college,
I did go to a university where I learned
computer science, I actually
ended up dropping out of college.
But I had taken three years
of computer science so
I did take these classes in college.
But I really was always kind of
annoyed that I felt that people felt
like that this knowledge of
computer science is locked up in
these $50,000 degrees a semester.
Those kind of things and that this was
inaccessible to them because in reality,
most of these concepts, as you'll see,
I can teach you in a couple of hours, and
you'll just know them and you'll have
them for the rest of your life and
you didn't need a four-year
degree to get it.
The other thing I wanna make sure,
I'm not disparaging computer science
degrees either, they are useful and
for people that have them,
high five, I wish I had one.
[LAUGH] So that's also useful as well but
I wanna make sure that we're not
safekeeping either way, we're not making
people that have CSVS to that, but
we also wanna bring people that don't
have CS degrees with us, right, and
share all this knowledge.
So, that's why I wrote this course because
I really wanted to make sure that you
didn't feel like that knowledge was
locked behind some dollar figure.
So, yeah, as I started working at larger
and larger companies, thee funny thing is
I used to think that these concepts
were totally worthless, right?
I learned all these things in a vacuum and
I thought like why would my ever
gonna need to know how to do 17
different ways of sorting numbers.
It turns out after working at Netflix and
Reddit and LinkedIn and Microsoft and
all these big companies, these actually
do get used, and they are useful to know.
But more than anything, it's actually
like the mindset of trading-off,
what am I gonna do this thing and
I'm going to sacrifice this other thing.
That sort of mindset is really
what computer science is to me,
it's just a science of making trade-offs.
I'm gonna use in the word trade-off today,
I don't know if you've ever watched me in
front and happy hour,
if we had a key word today, and
it was trade-off we'd all be
drunk by the end of the class.
If not, you can go listen front and happy
hour that joke will make more sense of do.
All right, yeah, I wanna help you learn
methodologies of structured thinking
that's kind of like my goal here today.
What else?
When I'm not teaching here for
a Masters when I'm not working,
I like to exercise,
I hopped on my peloton too much,
I really like the scotches,
I like very happy beer.
I have an amazing wife Nikki, I like
getting my ass kicked Dota and Overwatch,
as most of the Frontend Masters
team can attest to.
And of traveling as well,
I haven't done that in a little while but
that's also something I have loved to do.
I have an adorable dog I put a picture
of Luna in literally every course that I
teach, so there she is.
Here's I just dropped some links
to my favorite charities in here.
These are the ones that I support,
there's certainly awesome.
So if you're interested in finding
some cool charity support,
there's a couple on there as well.
As always special things to Frontend
Masters, really appreciate them giving
me the opportunity to get up here
to share this knowledge with you.
Yeah, it's, they're awesome people to
work with, thanks for the Masters.
As always, I put my socials on here,
you can find me on Twitter, LinkedIn,
GitHub, and peloton.
I do have open DMS on both of them,
I am terrible at answering them, so
just be aware, feel free to send them I
might not respond cuz I get a lot of them.